.
[dramatic music]
- Isiah is Gavin.
And he needs your help.
- There was a portal on top
of a mountain in Topanga.
And it leads to 1988.
If Isiah doesn't make it,
your children will die.
- There's something very
important I need you to do.
- I need you to take me
to Topanga.
We have to leave now.
- I saw this rock
in that world.
And someone called me
by a different name.
- What was it?
- Lilly.
- They're sinkhole locations.
Look at this.
And according to this map,
the one in Seattle is
gonna open tomorrow.
- The ravine ends four miles
east of here.
Bring Isiah there
or I'll kill 'em both.
- Eve, wait.
You shouldn't go alone.
- I don't have a choice.
I have to save my son.
[tense music]
♪
- What are we gonna do?
- We're gonna be fine.
Just stay calm.
- Calm?
Are you kidding?
- Josh,
just take a breath, okay?
♪
I know you're angry with me.
But we can't focus
on that right now.
Josh, I never meant
to hurt you.
Or your dad.
I really am sorry.
Silas, look!
♪
Mom!
Where's Isiah?
He's somewhere safe.
- I told you what would happen
if you didn't bring him to me.
- If I don't get Isiah
through the light,
my children will die.
I know.
But I won't sacrifice
my family to save yours.
Isiah is all I have.
- This isn't just
about my family.
Isiah is Gavin.
Josh is your great grandson.
Doesn't change anything.
- This is about more than
just Isiah, isn't it?
You're not from that village.
You know Aldridge.
So who are you?
Who are you really?
♪
- Tie her up.
- Grab her.
- No, wait.
Wait, no!
♪
Find Isiah.
- You guys all right?
- We're fine.
- How are we gonna
get out of here?
- Don't worry.
I got a plan.
♪
You wanted to be caught.
- The light in Topanga closes
in 12 hours.
Whoever's going needs
to leave now.
- Just so we're
super clear here,
whoever wants to go,
just has to walk through it,
and boom, you're in 1988?
Simple as that.
- How are we supposed
to find it?
I don't see a light in the sky.
- It's because it's not
in the sky.
You can't see it
from the ground.
Head northwest ten miles.
The light will be at
the highest peak in that area.
- How the hell do you
know any of this?
♪
- Because I'm responsible
for these sinkholes opening.
♪
Hold on.
You're saying you're the reason
we're all stuck down here?
- We never meant
for this to happen.
- We?
Who are the others?
- One of the people
involved is Silas,
Isiah's grandfather.
We're scientists by trade.
We both made some mistakes
that we're trying to correct
in our own ways.
The portal at Topanga
is a way out.
I owe you that at least.
You're telling the truth.
♪
I'm going.
Then so am I.
- Look, I'm happy to bring
a group to the mountain.
But Riley and I
are staying here.
- Sure about that?
- Yeah.
- We're not giving up
on going home.
Neither are we.
Sam!
- Ty.
- Hey.
What's going on?
- Josh and Levi were taken
by Silas
and three men from the village.
What?
- If any of you can help,
we need to go now.
Why would they take them?
- And who are you?
- This is Paara.
She's a friend
from the village.
Look, we'll explain
everything on the way.
But Eve needs our help.
- All right, let's go.
- I'll be right back.
- Hey, now would be a good time
to give me back my gun.
You got it.
You coming?
Uh...
- Someone should stay,
look after Aldridge.
Scott, can you do that?
Yeah, of course.
♪
Where did you get that?
- I brought this with me
for a much different reason.
I don't intend to use it unless
it's absolutely necessary.
- Listen, we can help Eve
and get to the mountain.
But we need to leave now.
Who's coming with us?
- Yeah.
Let's go.
♪
Hurry up, Veronica.
- We've been walking for hours.
I need a break.
We can't stop.
Rebecca said I have
to get the map to Isiah.
- Why is this
so important to you?
I promised Rebecca I'd do it.
- A promise to a person
you just met?
What's really going on, Lilly?
- Rebecca told me,
if I did this,
she'd help me find a way
back to my family.
- So you were just gonna
leave me behind?
I just thought that,
when we got to Topanga,
you and I could go to 1988.
We could start over together.
I'm not going to 1988.
[soft music]
What Aaron did to us
was awful.
And I know you want
to put it behind you.
♪
But it brought us together.
You're all I have now, Lilly.
♪
- I miss my family, Veronica,
my real family.
♪
Please,
you have to understand.
♪
- Ahh!
- Veronica!
- What is this?
- Get it off!
Get it off.
Hang on.
Get it off!
It's okay.
I'm gonna get you out of this.
[tense music]
♪
Isiah, come with me.
- Get off me!
Get off!
[grunting]
♪
- It's okay.
I'm here to help.
[whistles]
♪
Isiah.
- Are you okay?
- I'm fine.
- Okay.
- Hey, where's Eve?
- She said she
couldn't wait anymore.
♪
Down, down.
We take them by surprise.
Ty, Paara, you're with me.
- What about the rest of us?
- Get Isiah to Topanga.
Just head northwest.
We can't just leave.
Riley, I know you want
to help Josh.
This is how you do it, okay?
Stay low.
♪
- I'm scared, Paara.
- You have to be strong.
- We'll catch up with you
as soon as we can.
- Yeah, keep your head down.
Keep your head down.
Go, go, go, go, go.
♪
Almost there, keep going.
Come on.
♪
[grunting]
Come on.
Here.
♪
Stop!
- Silas!
- He's getting away!
Stop!
- [groans]
- Josh, hey, hey.
Hey, hey, what's going on?
What's going on--talk to me.
- It's this weird pain shooting
through my whole body.
I've never felt
anything like it.
Eve, what's going on?
- Aldridge said,
once the light begins to close,
Josh and Izzy will start
to feel sick.
It's happening.
♪
- There's gonna be
a sinkhole in Seattle.
- So what's the plan?
- We've got to get there.
There's still a chance
we can save Mom and Josh.
I'll book us
on the next flight.
[tense music]
I'm coming with you.
Are you sure?
- There may be more
that I remember,
something that can help you.
Besides, something tells me
I need to see this through.
Okay.
Does the map say where
in Seattle the sinkhole
is going to open?
- Yeah. There, near the mouth
of the Duwamish River.
- The Duwamish River?
- What's wrong?
- Well, that's in the center
of downtown.
Everyone there is in danger.
- It's not just downtown,
Gavin.
The entire city could be
in danger.
We don't know
how accurate this map is.
The sinkhole could open
anywhere in the area.
- We need to warn everyone,
get them to evacuate the city.
- Our proof is a map
from 10,000 BC.
No one's gonna believe us.
There's one person who might.
♪
- You sure you think
this is a good idea?
We don't have another option.
♪
- Dad.
- Iz?
Iz, are you okay?
- What's wrong?
- I don't know.
I don't know.
♪
- We lost Silas.
- How you doing?
- We have to get Isiah
through the light.
- He's safe--I sent him ahead
with Marybeth to the mountain.
- No, he's not safe,
not with Silas still out there.
He's gonna go to the mountain.
He's gonna try and stop Isiah.
- And he has a head
start on us.
There's another way,
a shortcut
through a network of caves.
They'll bring you
to the summit.
Where is it?
- The entrance is near the
eastern base of the mountain,
in the middle of a field
by a fallen tree.
But there are dangers there.
Many years ago, there was
a village near the caves.
They were protective
of their territory.
The area is still filled
with traps.
- Well, we'll take our chances.
- Yeah.
Catch up with Isiah,
and we'll take him
to the caves.
What about Silas?
Does he know
about the shortcut?
- Yes, but it's too dangerous
to go alone.
He'll take the longer route
up the side of the mountain.
I'll go after him.
I'm coming with you.
You good?
- Yeah, it's painful.
But I can walk.
All right, we better move.
♪
Sam told me,
"Stay here.
Look after Aldridge."
And I didn't even object.
My bud Josh is in trouble.
And I did nothing.
After everything
I've been through, deep down,
I'm still
the same scared coward,
a freakin' coward.
- [mooing]
- Oh, sorry.
No, I'm not yelling at you.
I'm just mad at myself.
Excuse me.
Uh...
- I thought
you were resting.
- There's somewhere I need
to go a few miles from here.
I was hoping
you'd help me get there.
- Uh-huh.
I suppose you're not gonna
tell me what this is about.
What you said about being
responsible for the sinkholes,
that's just the tip
of the iceberg, isn't it?
Please, it's very important.
♪
- You know, I watch
a lot of sci-fi.
And there's always
a character like you.
- Is that right?
- Yeah.
Someone who knows
more than they let on,
doesn't tell anyone anything.
Usually, they're the bad guy.
You think I'm the bad guy?
- I don't know what to think
about anything here.
There are so many
strange things.
Like, why does this cow
have a serial number?
It's lunacy.
Then I'll make you a deal.
You get me to where
I need to go,
and I will give you all
the answers you're looking for.
Or you can do nothing,
and things can stay
exactly as they are.
♪
When do we leave?
Where are they?
They should have caught up
to us by now.
- Relax, they'll be fine.
- What if they're not?
- We should go back.
They might need our help.
We need to keep moving.
Hand over the boy.
Take Isiah, run.
- Come on, come on, come on.
Let's go.
Your move, pal.
♪
[grunting]
Ahh!
[both grunting]
♪
- [grunts]
Ah!
[grunting]
[gun fires]
You guys all right?
Yeah, I think so.
[groans]
♪
Marybeth.
- How you feeling?
- Not great.
So Josh is going through
the same thing right now?
- Yeah, I think so.
Iz, listen.
- Please don't say
it's gonna be okay, Dad.
You don't know that.
[tense music]
♪
- Markman, thanks
for meeting us.
There's gonna be
another sinkhole,
this time in Seattle.
We need you
to evacuate the city.
♪
- Where'd you get this?
- From that place down there.
- So you're asking me
to evacuate a city
based on a map from 10,000 BC?
- Are you serious?
- It's not just that.
The seismic readings in Seattle
are the exact same
as before
the La Brea sinkhole opened.
- The city sits
on a fault line.
It could be nothing.
- It's concentrated downtown,
Adam, just like the map says.
We need to clear the area.
This is going to happen
in the next few hours.
- Do you realize the resources
and manpower required
to pull something
like this off?
I make that call and we're
wrong, my career is over.
- We're just trying
to prevent another disaster.
If we're right, and you
do nothing, people will die.
- We can stop
that from happening.
But only if you help us.
♪
[screaming]
[groaning]
Lilly, that's not gonna work.
I can do this.
No, you can't.
Lilly.
Stop!
- Maybe
I can find a bigger rock.
Look at me.
You don't have time for this.
♪
The light's gonna close.
Come...
come here.
[soft music]
- I can't leave you here.
- You have to.
♪
Take the map to Isiah,
so you can get back
to your family.
♪
Please, you need to go.
I'll come back for you.
As soon as I get this to him,
I'll come back.
- Mm-hmm.
- I promise.
♪
[both sobbing]
- I'm sorry
for everything I did.
♪
I hope one day
you can forgive me.
♪
Go, go.
Okay.
It's pretty deep.
You could be bleeding
internally.
We need to get you back
to the clearing.
Believe it or not,
this isn't the first time
I've been stabbed.
- Why don't you take Isiah
over there?
He doesn't need to see this.
Sit there.
Hey.
♪
I was really worried about you.
Are you okay?
Pushing through it.
I'll be all right.
♪
- Hey, Marybeth.
You need to listen to Sam.
- We don't have time
to get back to the clearing.
As soon as I go
through that light,
I will go straight
to the hospital.
- We still have
a long ways to go.
You sure you can make it?
- I'll go slow.
I'll be okay.
♪
Guys, I am not missing
my chance
to get out of this place.
You go ahead.
You don't have
to go at my pace.
Marybeth.
- Don't worry.
I'll stay with her,
make sure she gets there
in one piece.
♪
- Go, save your family.
I'll be right behind you.
- Take care of her.
- Yeah.
♪
He can't be that far ahead.
We're going to find Silas.
We are going to stop him.
- I should have
never trusted him.
He put my people in danger.
- The people who helped him
made their own decisions.
That's out of your control.
[tense music]
- [groans]
- Over here.
♪
- It's painful.
- I'm sorry.
Could the doctors
in 1988 help you?
They don't have a cure.
But maybe their machines
and drugs can make
the end more comfortable.
♪
- Then perhaps you should
go back to your world.
But I think it would be
for the best.
We should keep moving.
♪
How you doing?
- Still hurts, but I'm okay.
Just thinking about Izzy.
Yeah, she's with your dad.
He's gonna take care of her.
I know he is.
Few days ago, I never
would have believed that,
but now...
I miss him.
Me too.
♪
- It's the tree Paara
told us about.
- Remember, Paara said
this place is dangerous.
Let's keep our eyes peeled.
- Riley and I
will take the lead.
Levi and Josh,
you bring up the rear.
- No, it's all right.
I'll stay with Isiah.
♪
- You want to tell me
what that was about?
♪
Josh knows about us.
- I can't deal
with this right now.
I just have to focus on Isiah.
♪
- If I make it to 1988,
you'll be okay, right?
I think so.
Look, I know you're scared.
I'd be freaking out, too.
But the person
you grow up to be...
He's pretty great.
- Really?
- Yeah.
♪
One day,
you're gonna be a pilot.
You're gonna fly.
- Like a bird?
- Yeah.
And you're gonna love it.
- It's a dead end.
This way.
♪
Look, it's a tar pit.
- Must be the way
up the mountain.
This should be fun.
♪
- Could be a trap.
- Climb up, ladder breaks.
Even if you survive the fall,
you're stuck in the tar.
- We don't really have
another choice.
All right, who's going first?
- I should go before
the pain comes back.
Josh.
- We don't even know
if it can support your weight.
- Only one way to find out.
- Josh, no!
No, no!
Please be careful.
Grab the ladder.
[tense music]
- You got it?
- Yeah.
Go.
[grunts]
♪
Easy, easy.
You're almost there.
♪
I made it.
Oh, God.
♪
You need a break?
I'm fine.
Keep moving.
Just a little dizzy.
♪
Oh, Jesus, Marybeth!
Hey, hey, hey, wake up.
Wake up, hey.
There you are.
♪
- Sam was right.
It's worse than I thought.
- Here.
Easy, easy, easy.
Hey, listen to me.
Listen to me.
Hey, we need to get you
to a hospital, okay?
The only way to do that
is through that light.
- Lucas, I don't think
I'm gonna make it.
But you need to go.
You don't have much time.
- No, no, no way.
I'll carry you if I have to.
- You can't carry me
up a mountain.
I can damn well try.
- And then we'll both
be stuck here.
You got a chance
to get out of this place.
- I don't want you to lose it.
- No.
- [groans]
What the hell are you doing?
- I'm getting us out of here.
Hey, do not argue, all right?
This is not a negotiation.
Come on.
♪
You got it, buddy.
Come on.
You're almost there.
Don't look down, okay?
Come on.
You got it.
Josh, you got him?
♪
Yeah, we're good.
- Okay, you're up, Eve.
- Okay.
- Okay, you got it.
Just one at a time.
- Looking good.
- Easy.
♪
- Just a few more rungs.
You got it, Eve.
- Come on, Mom.
You can do this.
Take my hand when you're here.
Take my hand.
- Whoa!
- Whoa, Eve!
Hold on!
- Mom, grab my hand.
- Hold on!
Reach out, okay?
Mom, reach out
and grab my hand.
- Mom!
- No!
- Eve, hang on!
- Mom, I got you.
I got you.
Come on, come on.
♪
You okay?
Yeah, you okay?
Yeah.
What are we gonna do now?
- You guys are gonna have
to move on without us.
We're gonna make our way up
the mountain the long the way.
I'll see you up there.
♪
[police siren wailing]
- This is
the Seattle Police Department.
You must evacuate
the area now.
- We gotta move
all these people down
away from the bridge.
[police siren wailing]
Evacuate the area.
You're all I have now, Lilly.
Let's keep it moving.
- You need to go.
Take the map to Isiah.
[police siren wailing]
- Ella, you saw something,
didn't you?
My dad has the same look
when it happens to him.
What did you see?
- There's someone down there,
someone I was close to.
She's in trouble.
Okay.
Evacuate the area now.
This is the
Seattle Police Department.
- Dad.
- Iz.
Dad, it's getting worse.
Hey, hang in there.
- Gavin.
- Okay?
- The area's been evacuated.
People should be safe.
- When is this thing
gonna open?
Oh, no.
Sophia, what's wrong?
- The seismic readings
in the area
they're going down.
- You're saying it's
not gonna happen?
- I don't know.
- Damn it, Sophia.
Do you realize what I put
on the line for this?
Okay, this has gone far enough.
I'm shutting it down.
- Wait, maybe it's gonna
open somewhere else.
Let me see the map.
♪
The map, it's fading.
How the hell did that happen?
- I don't know.
- I think I do.
Aldridge told me to get
to the light
and bring the map to you.
But I think this means
I may not make it.
♪
I was right.
The seismic activity
isn't going away.
It's just shifting.
There's a campground
12 miles east of here.
Look at the readings.
They're getting stronger.
- Okay, so we need to get
to that campground.
♪
Let's go.
Sorry, I'm slowing us down.
You're doing great, Josh.
Look.
This looks like the way out.
♪
- We made it.
- Yeah, we have to hurry.
Come on, come on.
♪
- Please leave
your belongings--
- Back to your vehicle
please, sir.
- And head back
to your cars now.
♪
- That sinkhole could open
at any moment.
We gotta find it.
Iz, stay here.
No, Dad, I can do it.
Let me come with you.
Okay, let's go.
♪
- What are the readings
saying now?
It's getting stronger.
[distant rumbling]
- Do you hear that?
- It came from over there.
♪
This is it?
- Dad, I don't think you're
gonna get a plane down there.
What are we gonna do?
♪
- You need to stop, Lucas.
- No, no, we're almost there.
- Please.
- Okay, okay, okay.
Hey.
I'm not gonna
let you die on me.
It's not up to you.
I need you
to promise me something.
No, we're not doing this.
Listen to me.
Don't go back to your old life.
Make something of yourself.
- Mom.
- Promise me.
[soft music]
- Okay, okay, okay.
Okay, I promise.
I promise, okay?
I promise.
♪
I love you, Lucas.
- Mom?
Hey.
Mom, Mom?
Hey, no, no, no.
No, no, no.
Sam, Sam!
Anybody, help!
Help!
♪
Come on, come on, come on,
come on.
Get up, get up.
Get up!
♪
[sobbing]
- We're almost there.
Come on.
- Keep going.
- [grunts]
Josh, hey.
[tense music]
Iz.
Just breathe.
- Hey, hey, hey.
- Mom, go, go without me.
You need to get him
through the light.
- Okay.
- Go.
I'm coming right back, okay?
I know.
You ready?
♪
It's okay, Josh.
You're gonna be all right.
So are you.
Come on, come on.
♪
- Mom!
- No, Silas, let him go!
Eve!
Grandpa, no!
No!
- Grandpa!
Josh is gonna die.
- I can't let you do this.
- Grandpa, please.
Stop!
[grunts]
[tense music]
- I'm taking Isiah
to the light.
Don't try and stop me.
- You take him up there,
the moment you go,
I'll kill your son.
♪
Give Isiah to me now.
It's over, Silas.
- You don't know
what you're doing.
- I know I never
should have trusted you.
- Mom, the light's
almost closed.
- I've got him, Eve.
Go.
♪
- I'm sorry, Grandpa.
I have to do this.
I have to save Josh.
♪
I love you.
Until we meet again, my boy.
- Come on, come on.
Let's go.
We gotta go.
♪
- You should go, too,
before it closes.
♪
I'm not leaving.
There's nothing for me in 1988.
I go there, I still die.
At least here,
I have a purpose,
people I care about.
[dramatic music]
♪
Thank you.
Goodbye, Eve.
♪
Mom did it.
How you feeling?
- The pain is gone.
- Yeah?
♪
So what now?
- I've got a team coming
to secure the sinkhole.
- Let's go.
- No, I'm not leaving.
I can't let you do this.
- It's not up to you.
- Gavin--
- This is the last chance
I have to save my family.
If you go, there's no way back.
- I made it back once before.
I can do it again.
- When you land,
you'll be in Seattle.
That's 1,200 miles
from Los Angeles.
How you gonna get there?
- I don't know.
But I have to try.
♪
Iz, I have to jump.
I'm going, too.
There's someone down there
I made a promise to.
I have to go back for her.
- Dad, I'm coming with you.
- No, Iz, Iz, you can't.
We either go together,
or I'll jump right after you.
Your choice.
♪
Okay.
Let's go together.
♪
Thank you for everything.
Good luck.
♪
Josh!
Are you all right?
You okay?
- I'm good.
- Yeah?
♪
- It's over.
You did it, Mom.
No, no, we did it.
You saved my life back there.
You're amazing.
- What took you so long
to figure that out?
- I guess I haven't always
seen things so clearly.
And after what happened
with Izzy,
I think I just--I thought
I had to do everything
I could to protect you.
And you didn't need that.
- Eve, Josh!
- You guys okay?
- Yeah, we're good.
We're good.
- Isiah made it
through the light.
Thank God.
♪
- Appreciate you not
dying on me.
♪
- Lilly, what are
you doing here?
- Where's Isiah?
- He's gone, honey.
No, no, he can't be.
I have to give this
back to him.
Lilly, Lilly.
Hold on.
Lilly!
We've been walking all day.
Where the hell
are you taking me?
We're here, Scott.
♪
Whoa.
That's impossible.
Someone built that here.
Yes, I did.
There's more you need to see.
♪
Isiah!
[tense music]
He's not here anymore.
♪
Now I'll never get home.
Hey, come on.
We should go back
to the clearing.
♪
What is that?
Josh?
Riley!
Riley.
♪
- Where the hell
did they go?
♪
Oh, my God.
[soft music]
♪
Did we make it?
[mammoth trumpets]
[dramatic music]
♪
[mammoth trumpets]
I think we made it.
♪
Let's go find Mom and Josh.
[dramatic music]
♪